# Enhanced-String-Library

String manipulation is an important concept in computer science, and it is something that comes up very often in systems programming. The C programming language has its own standard library which has some excellent string manipulation facilities but there are several problems that are encountered while using the existing library functions.
Strings in C are defined as a stream of contiguous bytes, terminated by a byte with the value zero. The C standard library has many functions that deal with this type of string, but they suffer from one major problem. The definition of a C string does not contain the size of the memory allocated for that string. Thus, the user must remember this buffer size in some other variable. Obviously, this can be error-prone, and the result is the famous class of security vulnerability such as buffer overflows and format string attacks. 

One of the reasons behind vulnerability to buffer overflows are errors when copying and concatenating strings because the standard strcpy() and strcat() functions perform unbounded copy operations .There are several problems encountered when strncpy() and strncat() are used as safe versions of strcpy() and strcat(). Both functions deal with NULL-termination and the length parameter in different and non-intuitive ways that confuse even experienced programmers. They also provide no easy way to detect when truncation occurs. Finally, strncpy() zero-fills the remainder of the destination string, incurring a performance penalty. Of all these issues, the confusion caused by the length parameters and the related issue of NULL-termination are most important.

They can be eliminated by programmers through careful programming and by rigorous checking of array bounds. However, it is unrealistic to assume that all programmers will follow such a strict programming practice since it would decrease the benefits of convenience and performance, just as it is unrealistic to assume that they will not make any programming mistakes.

The Enhanced String Library includes replacement to standard string library functions as well as a number of additional useful routines in which we will try to rectify the above-stated issues and provide enhanced built-in functions to dynamically allocate memory to strings, free the used memory of the string that is copied to a new location, provide safer alternatives to functions such as strncpy(),strncat(),snprintf(), and other functions which are currently not present in the standard string library.

All these functions will be created in a way to prevent the problem of memory leak. This library can be used by developers as it can help them to save their time and will have the capability of more accurate memory management leading to fewer performance issues, more crisp code following the principle of DRY.
